Collisions and Passengers: The driver, crew, and passengers in smaller vehicles are vulnerable to damage in a collision. All aboard a vehicle that comes
to a stop after a collision take 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet of relative speed in the collision. A successful Reflex save (DC 20) halves the damage.
If the vehicle is Huge or larger, those aboard take damage only if the collision destroys the vehicle.

Leaving a Moving Vehicle: Whether you jump or get pushed, sometimes you leave a vehicle while it’s moving. Hitting the ground deals 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet of speed (Reflex half DC 20). Regardless of the save result, such a character is prone unless she succeeds on a Tumble check (DC 15 + 1 per 10 feet of speed).

Drawn Vehicles and Collisions: An inattentive captain can easily sail a ship into a dock, but even the worst charioteer can’t drive a team of horses into a brick wall. When confronted with an inanimate object, the dray creatures simply stop.

Running over Opponents: Drawn vehicles with war-trained dray creatures can attempt to run over foes. Treat such attacks as overrun attempts (see Chapter 8
of the Player’s Handbook). Accordingly, the defender chooses to either avoid or block the dray creatures. If the defender chooses to avoid them or is tripped by them during the blocking attempt, the vehicle deals the indicated ram damage as it drives over the defender, and the defender is prone after the ram if she wasn’t beforehand. If the defender chooses to block and succeeds, the vehicle comes to a halt with the dray creatures adjacent to the defender, just as in a normal overrun. Depending on the result of the trip attempt, the dray creatures may or may not be prone themselves.

If two or more dray creatures are harnessed abreast of each other, each creature making the overrun attempt gains a +2 circumstance bonus on trip attempts for each other creature harnessed in the line, because the harness gives the dray creatures more stability.

For example, if Tordek tries to run over an orc with a double chariot drawn by two heavy warhorses, only one of the warhorses makes an overrun attempt because only that one will actually run over the orc. But if the orc chooses to block, the heavy war horse receives a total bonus on the trip attempt of +14 (+4 for being Large, +4 for 18 Strength, +4 for being a quadruped, and +2 for the other horse). 

Note that just as with a normal overrun attempt, dray creatures can only run over opponents who are one size larger, the same size, or smaller. Trampling Dray Creatures: If your vehicle’s dray creatures have the trample special ability, they make trample attacks rather than overrun attempts