Small Animal
Hit Dice: 		2d8+4 (13 hp)
Initiative: 		+2 (Dex)
Speed: 			40 ft., climb 40 ft.
AC: 			17 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +4 natural), touch 13, flatfooted 15
Attacks: 		Bite +4 melee
Damage: 		Bite 1d6+3
Face/Reach: 		5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Qualities: 	Low-light vision, scent
Saves: 			Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +1
Abilities: 		Str 15, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6
Skills: 		Climb +19, Hide +6, Listen +6, Spot +6
Climate/Terrain: 	Any hill or mountains
Organization: 		Solitary, pair, or pack (5–20)
Challenge Rating: 	1
Treasure: 		None
Alignment: 		Always neutral
Advancement: 		3–4 HD (Medium-size); 5–6 HD (Large)

Climbdogs live vertically. These canine creatures clamber about effortlessly on the rocky cliffs where they are found. They can climb nearly anything short of a sheer surface.

A climbdog has mottled short gray fur, black eyes, and short legs. It is thickly muscled, and its wide paws are four-toed—two facing forward and two facing to the rear. This arrangement allows climbdogs to hook their curved claws into a cliffside whether they face up or down. 

Climbdogs live in sparse packs, claiming entire cliffs for their territory. They feed on cliff-dwelling birds and make their dens in shallow caves. Their short legs belie the amazing speed at which they can scuttle about on vertical surfaces.

In some cities, climbdogs have been imported to curb bird overpopulation. After the bird problems are solved, however, packs of half-wild climbdogs remain roaming the alleys, trading a nuisance for a potential threat.

Adult climbdogs are about 3 feet long and weigh up to 70 pounds.

Combat: 
Primitive halflings are well known for domesticating and training climbdogs, though any race can do so. The creatures are easily taught and
exceptionally loyal. Climbdogs fight to the death in defense of their masters.

True to their nature, they prefer to attack from above, leaping down on prey if possible.

Skills: 		
Climbdogs receive a +4 racial bonus on Climb checks, in addition to the +8 bonus on Climb checks from having a climb speed.

Training a Climbdog: 	
Training a climbdog as a hunting or guard animal requires a successful Handle Animal check (DC 10 young, DC 17 adult). Climbdog pups are worth 30 gp on the open market. Professional trainers charge 125 gp to rear or train a climbdog.