Medium-Size Beast
Hit Dice: 		4d10+12 (34 hp)
Initiative: 		+0
Speed: 			30 ft., burrow 10 ft.
AC: 			16 (+6 natural), touch 10, flat-footed 16
Attacks: 		2 claws +7 melee and bite +2 melee
Damage: 		Claw 1d6+4, bite 1d8+2
Face/Reach: 		5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: 	Improved grab
Special Qualities: 	Darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, thud
Saves: 			Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +2
Abilities: 		Str 19, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6
Skills: 		Jump +12, Spot +8
Climate/Terrain: 	Any temperate and warm land
Organization: 		Pack (5–10)
Challenge Rating: 	2
Treasure: 		None
Alignment: 		Always neutral
Advancement: 		5–8 HD (Large); 9–12 HD (Huge)

These dark blue, thick-skinned, hairless predators hunt burrowing creatures. Their footfalls rumble through the ground, upsetting their
prey’s tremorsense and driving it to the surface, where they pounce on it. After bringing down a kill, the pack feasts, often sleeping for days afterward.

A full belly can sustain a thudhunter for up to two weeks. Though thudhunters love a big kill, they can also survive on a diet of small burrowing animals.

Thudhunters take well to domestication, although they need frequent exercise to stay sharp for hunting. Rich sport hunters sometimes keep trained packs of the beasts solely for the occasional bulette hunt. 

Thudhunters stand 2 1/2 feet tall at the shoulder and weigh upwards of 100 pounds.

Combat: 
Unlike most predators, thudhunters are loud and obvious. Hunting in packs, they keep their shovel-noses close to the ground. Their footfalls
thunder for a quarter-mile or more through the air, and farther underground, as they attempt to flush out their quarry. Once a burrowing creature surfaces, the nearest thudhunters attack with their claws and grapple to keep it from escaping while others burrow underneath. Together, the pack claws and bites its prey to death.

Improved Grab (Ex): 
If a thudhunter hits with a claw, it deals normal damage and attempts to start a grapple as a free action without provoking an attack of opportunity. It has the option to conduct the grapple normally, or simply use that claw to hold the opponent (–20 on grapple checks, but the
thudhunter is not considered grappled). Each successful grapple check it makes during successive rounds automatically deals the damage given for the claw attack.

Thud (Ex): Their thick, stumpy legs loudly stomp the ground when thudhunters prowl. Creatures with tremorsense within 120 feet are driven to distraction by the disruptive vibrations, and are forced to surface unless they succeed on a Will save (DC 16). Once they do surface, they must succeed on a second Will save (DC 16) or be stunned for 1 round.

Skills: 
Thudhunters receive a +5 racial bonus on Jump checks.

Training a Thudhunter: 
Training a thudhunter as a hunting or guard beast requires a successful Handle Animal check (DC 22 young, DC 29 adult). Thudhunter young are worth 200 gp on the open market. Professional trainers charge 500 gp to rear or train a thudhunter.