Colossal Magical Beast
Hit Dice: 		38d10+345 (554 hp)
Initiative: 		+0
Speed: 			10 ft., swim 30 ft.
AC: 			32 (–8 size, +30 natural), touch 2, flat-footed 32
Attacks: 		Bite +46 melee
Damage: 		Bite 4d6+24
Face/Reach: 		80 ft. by 100 ft./40 ft.
Special Attacks: 	Fin sweep
Special Qualities: 	Darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision
Saves: 			Fort +30, Ref +21, Will +16
Abilities: 		Str 43, Dex 11, Con 28, Int 6, Wis 19, Cha 12
Skills: 		Listen +12, Spot +12, Swim +24
Feats: 			Alertness, Toughness
Climate/Terrain: 	Warm aquatic
Organization: 		Solitary
Challenge Rating: 	20
Treasure: 		Double standard
Alignment: 		Usually neutral
Advancement: 		39–76 HD (Colossal)

These enormous, sedentary turtles are easily mistaken for small islands. Clever or lucky groups of people who find one can ride it. 

Zaratans normally ride the warm ocean currents with their mouths open, allowing food and jetsam to wash in. Shipwrecked sailors are sometimes found living on a zaratan’s back. Some don’t even know they’re on a turtle.

No fewer than four people can attempt to steer a zaratan. The primary rider must stand on the shell near the head and shout or sing loudly to the creature, giving instructions and motivation to overcome its natural lethargy. Riders can make Diplomacy, Intimidate, or Perform checks (DC 31) to get the zaratan to carry out their wishes. Other riders must stand equidistant around the circumference of the shell and stamp their feet or pound it with a bludgeoning weapon to encourage the zaratan to go only forward, and no other direction (they may also make aid another attempts with any appropriate skill). Though the frontmost rider might not need aid to convince the zaratan to move, it is not sufficiently motivated without these vibrations.

A zaratan’s rocky shell is 80 feet long and 80 feet wide, with a sandy outer layer where seeds and pollen take root, sometimes growing into small trees. Even larger zaratans have been reported by old sailors telling tales around the fire.

Combat: If attacked, zaratans prefer to flee rather than fight, but they are able defenders. At first sign of aggression, a zaratan pulls its head and flippers into its shell, waiting for the attacks to stop. If the attacks continue for more than 2 rounds, it lashes out with its bite and sweeps with its fins for 1 round, then swims away in the next round. It continues to alternate attacking and fleeing until the opponent is discouraged or dead. If a zaratan knows it has riders, it will not dive underwater unless its life is in danger. 

Fin Sweep (Ex): The zaratan thrashes all four of its fins simultaneously, affecting everything in the water in a 40-foot radius. Objects and creatures within the swept area automatically take 2d8+16 points of bludgeoning damage. Affected creatures can attempt a Reflex save (DC 38) to take half damage.

Training a Zaratan: Zaratans do not appear to be trainable. They are intelligent enough to carry out even complex commands under direct orders (if delivered with appropriate vigor) but lapse into dim torpor when orders cease. These creatures have incredibly long life spans, and young zaratans are so rare as to be a nonissue. Rather than capturing and training a zaratan, explorers must simply use one when available. Zaratans can understand rudimentray commands in most languages, including Common, but speak only Aquan.

Carrying Capacity: Light 76,800 lb., medium 153,600 lb., heavy 230,400 lb.