Blackrazor is a +3 greatsword whose blade resembles a piece of the night sky studded with strange stars. It has the ability to detect living creatures within a 60-foot radius; this works in a similar fashion to the detect thoughts spell, but it can determine only the presence or absence of creatures (whether conscious or not) and how many, not their mental strength or their surface thoughts. In addition, the sword can cast haste upon its wielder, as a 10th-level caster, once per day, and it grants its wielder immunity to mind-affecting spells and effects. Blackrazor communicates telepathically, and it can both speak and read Common, Abyssal, Draconic, and Giant.

Blackrazor has a special purpose: to consume souls. It is not finicky about whose soul it consumes, and under certain circumstances it will happily feed on its wielder’s. Whenever Blackrazor deals enough damage to bring a living creature to –1 or fewer hit points (even below –10), it immediately uses an effect similar to death knell to kill the creature and drain its life force (Will save DC 15 negates). 

Its wielder gains the benefit of the death knell effect: 
1d8 temporary hit points, +2 Strength, and +1 to effective caster level. These benefits last for 10 minutes per Hit Die of the slain creature. Blackrazor itself consumes the soul, however, making it impossible to restore life to the creature except through use of a wish, miracle, or true resurrection spell—but even these powerful spells have only a 50% chance of success.

For every three days the sword remains unfed, its Ego score increases by 1, until it can compel its bearer to kill something for it to eat. Upon feeding, its Ego returns to its normal value. 

Blackrazor reacts poorly to contact with negative energy. If it is used to make a successful melee attack against an undead creature, it bestows one negative level upon its wielder and transfers some of this life energy to the undead creature in the form of 5 temporary hit points (which partially offsets the damage it deals). If it bestows as many negative levels upon its wielder as he has Hit Dice, it consumes its wielder’s soul through its death knell-like effect. The saving throw DC to remove the negative levels is 17.

If the wielder uses Blackrazor while afflicted with negative levels from any source, every two living creatures killed with the sword remove one negative level from its wielder, instead of granting temporary hit points and Strength.
AL CN; 
SV Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +7; 
Str —, Dex —, Con —, Int 17, Wis 10, Cha 15, Ego 19.

Caster Level: 10th; 
Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, death knell, haste, mind blank; 
Market Price: 90,150 gp; 
Cost to Create: 45,250 gp + 3,592 XP.