Sometimes, despite the abstract nature of combat, you’re going to want to apply damage to specific parts of the body, such as when a character’s hands are thrust into flames, when he steps on caltrops, or when he peeks through a hole in the wall and someone shoots an arrow into the hole from the other side. (This situation comes up most frequently with devious traps meant to chop at feet, smash fingers, or the like.)

When a specific body part takes damage, you can apply a –2 penalty to any action that the character undertakes using that portion of his body. For example, if a character’s fingers get slashed, he makes attacks rolls with a weapon in that hand at –2 and he takes a –2 penalty on skill checks involving the use of his hands. If a character steps on a caltrop, he takes a –2 penalty on skill checks involving the use of his feet (in addition to the effects described in the Player’s Handbook).

Chapter 8 of this book defines some effects of damage to specific body parts, such as what happens when a character is blinded or deafened. In addition to that information, use the table below as a guide to what rolls are modified by injuries to what body parts.

This penalty lasts until the character heals, either magically or by resting. For a minor wound, such as stepping on a caltrop, a DC 15 Heal check, 1 point of magical healing, or a day of rest removes the penalties.

You can allow a character to make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + damage taken) to “tough it out” and ignore the penalty. Also, these penalties shouldn’t stack—two hand injuries should not impose a –4 penalty.

Location 	Damage Affects:

Hand		Climb, Craft, Disable Device, Escape Artist, Forgery, Heal, Open Lock, Sleight of Hand, and Use Rope checks; attack rolls.
Arm 		Climb and Swim checks; attack rolls; Strength checks.
Head 		All attack rolls, saves, and checks.
One eye  	Appraise, Craft, Decipher Script, Disable Device, Forgery, Open Lock, Search, Sense Motive, Spellcraft, and Spot checks; Survival checks (for tracking); initiative checks; Dexterity checks; ranged attack rolls; Reflex saving throws. Severe damage to both eyes causes a character to become blinded.
One ear 	Listen checks; initiative checks. Severe damage to both ears causes a character to become deafened.
Foot/Leg 	Balance, Climb, Jump, Move Silently, Ride, Swim, and Tumble checks; Reflex saving throws; Dexterity checks.