[Short Version]
If 5 Rank, -4 Skill for +2 Skill to a single ally within 30ft.
If 15 Rank, -10 Skill for +5 Skill...

Must hear and has line of sight. 

Action type : Concentration

[Long Version]

Individual Events 

Even in some cases where several characters attempt the same action, with each succeeding or failing as a result of separate checks, characters can assist one another. By offering advice, guidance, or simply leading by example, a character can effectively share some of her expertise with her comrades. However, this activity comes at a cost, since the character’s concentration is split between multiple tasks (and thus she isn’t as capable at the task as she would normally be).

 A character with 5 or more ranks in a skill who is engaged  in a task using that skill can voluntarily accept a –4 penalty on the check in order to grant a +2 circumstance bonus on the same skill checks made by nearby allies engaged in the same task. For example, Lidda the 2nd-level rogue can help her allies sneak through a dungeon. By accepting a –4 penalty on her Hide and Move Silently checks, Lidda grants Jozan, Tordek, and Mialee each a +2 circumstance bonus on the same checks. While Lidda isn’t as quiet and hidden as she’d normally be, the group overall is more stealthy than they would be without her help. 

 At higher levels, a character can grant more assistance, but at a greater cost. A character with 15 or more ranks in a skill can accept a –10 penalty on the check to grant a +5 circumstance bonus on the same skill checks made by nearby allies engaged in the same task.

 An ally must be within 30 feet of you to gain the bonus, and you must be able to see and hear each other. Using  the previous example, if Lidda were invisible, she couldn’t  grant the bonus to any character who couldn’t see her; if  Mialee were invisible, Lidda couldn’t grant her the bonus unless she could see invisible creatures (but she could  still grant the bonus to the other characters).

 Typically, only the following skills can be assisted in this manner: Balance, Bluff, Climb, Craft, Diplomacy, Escape  Artist, Handle Animal, Hide, Move Silently, Ride, Search, Survival, and Swim. In special circumstances, the DM  may rule that other skills can benefit from this assistance, or that characters can’t benefit from this form of assistance even when using the skills described above. 