Any spell that requires an attack roll and deals damage functions as a weapon in certain respects, whether the spell deals normal hit point damage, nonlethal damage, ability damage, or energy drain. Such spells can threaten critical hits, can be used in sneak attacks, and can be used with favored enemy damage bonuses. You can even use a number of combat-enhancing feats from the Player’s Handbook to improve the effectiveness of weaponlike spells, as noted in Chapter 3 of this book.

 All such spells deal damage as spells, not weapons, so Strength modifi ers to damage and magical effects that increase weapon damage (such as the bard’s inspire courage ability and the prayer spell) don’t increase damage from a weaponlike spell. Likewise, a weaponlike spell that deals normal damage can’t be used to deal nonlethal damage or vice versa (except when modifi ed by the Nonlethal Substitution feat or in accordance with the specifi c regulations of a nonlethal spell duel as described on page 176).

CRITICAL HITS
Unless the spell description says otherwise, a weaponlike spell threatens a critical hit on a roll of 20 and deals double damage with a critical hit. Only damage that the spell deals in the round it strikes is increased by a critical hit. For example, if you score a critical hit with Melf’s acid arrow, only damage dealt in the first round of the spell’s duration is doubled.

 Some weaponlike spells depend on a saving throw to determine the damage doubled on a critical hit. For example, disintegrate deals 2d6 points of damage per caster level on a failed Fortitude save, but only 5d6 points of damage on a successful save. If a critical hit is scored and the target makes its saving throw, it takes 10d6 points of damage; on a failed save, it takes 4d6 points of damage per caster level, and in both cases is disintegrated if reduced to 0 or fewer hit points by the spell.

Extra damage from a critical hit is of the same type the spell deals normally. For example, ray of frost deals 1d3 points of cold damage, so a critical hit deals 2d3 points of cold damage. Likewise, a critical hit with an energy-draining spell deals twice its normal damage. A critical hit with an enervation spell bestows 2d4 negative levels, for example.

 Spells that require attack rolls but do not deal actual damage cannot score critical hits. For example, ray of enfeeblementrequires a ranged touch attack roll, but since the target of the spell takes a penalty to Strength (rather than Strength damage), the spell cannot score a critical hit. Chill touch, on the other hand, deals 1d6 points of damage and 1 point of Strength damage (not a Strength penalty) unless the target makes a Fortitude saving throw, and so would deal 2d6 points of damage plus 2 points of Strength damage on a critical hit with a failed save.

SNEAK ATTACKS
Any weaponlike spell can be used to make a sneak attack, including ranged spells used against targets within 30 feet (just as with any other ranged sneak attack).

 A successful sneak attack with a weaponlike spell deals extra damage of the same type as the spell normally deals. For example, a 10th-level rogue/3rd-level wizard who makes a successful sneak attack with Melf’s acid arrow deals 2d4 points of acid damage, plus an extra 5d6 points of acid damage for the sneak attack (with the spell continuing to deal acid damage as normal in subsequent rounds). The exception is spells that deal energy drain or ability damage, which deal negative energy damage on a sneak attack, not extra negative levels or ability damage. For example, a 5th-level rogue/8th-level sorcerer who makes a successful enervation sneak attack bestows 1d4 negative levels and deals 3d6 points of negative energy damage.

 If a sneak attack with a weaponlike spell results in a critical hit, the spell damage is doubled, but not the extra damage (as with any sneak attack critical hit).

Multiple Hits
Some weaponlike spells can strike multiple times in the same round. When the caster gets a bonus on damage with such spells (including sneak attack damage), the extra damage applies only to the first attack, whether that attack hits or not.

For example, a 7th-level sorcerer/3rd-level rogue with Point 
Blank Shot makes a scorching ray attack at less than 30 feet (two rays, each requiring a ranged touch attack roll and dealing 4d6 points of fi re damage). If the fi rst ray hits, it deals 6d6+1 points of fi re damage (4d6 normal + 2d6 sneak attack + 1 for Point Blank Shot), while each subsequent ray deals only 4d6 points of fi re damage whether the fi rst ray hits or not.