This rod comes in two varieties, greater and lesser. Each appears to be a long, sinuous rod of unknown (but presumably organic) composition. The lesser rod ends in three “branches,” while the greater has six. 

Upon command, these branches animate and grapple like tentacles, using their own attack bonus (including the rod’s +3 enhancement bonus) rather than the wielder’s bonus. The rod’s attacks count as a standard action for the wielder.

The tentacle attacks follow all the normal rules for grapple attacks, with two exceptions: These attacks don’t incur attacks of opportunity, and the wielder need not move into the target’s space to maintain the grapple. The tentacle, not the wielder, is considered to be the grappler (and the wielder doesn’t suffer any of the drawbacks of grappling). Treat the rod as a Medium-size creature for purposes of the special size modifier to the grapple check. 

Each rod also has one or more special powers that affect any target touched by three (or six) of its tentacles in the same round (regardless of whether the tentacles actually grapple the target).

If all three of the lesser rod’s tentacles touch a target, it must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 14) or be affected by a slow spell for 12 rounds. If any three of the greater rod’s tentacles touch a single target, it must succeed on a Will save (DC 14) or be affected by a bestow curse spell (a permanent –4 enhancement penalty on attacks, saves, and checks). If all six of the greater rod’s tentacles touch a single target in the same round, the victim must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 17) or take 1 point of permanent Dexterity drain.

Each tentacle has hardness 10, 20 hp, and a break DC of 30.

Rod 		Number of Bonus 	Attacks/Grapple Check 	Damage* 	Str
Lesser 		3 			+9 			6 points 	16
Greater 	6 			+15 			9 points 	22

Caster Level: 12th; 
Prerequisites: Craft Rod, animate objects, bestow curse (greater rod only), Evard’s black tentacles, slow (lesser rod only); 
Market Price: 21,000 gp (lesser rod) or 57,000 gp (greater rod).