Having some of the characteristics of plants and some of animals, planar motes are native to the Outer Planes. They are wispy creatures, each about the size of a gold piece, resembling floating globules of plane-stuff. Their shape and coloring vary wildly and reflect their native planes. Planar motes from Arcadia, for example, look like large dandelion seeds, while those from Baator take the form of floating urchins spiked with metal barbs. Largely harmless and seemingly unintelligent, planar motes are thought to be spontaneously generated by the planes themselves, although it is unclear for what purpose.

Despite their strange nature and lack of Hit Dice, planar motes emit auras of moderate strength directly tied to the alignment of the plane they came from.A planar mote from Bytopia, for example, has a moderate aura of good, while a mote from the Abyss has moderate auras of both chaos and evil (see Chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide for the alignments of the Outer Planes). So concentrated is a planar mote’s alignment aura that it can disguise your alignment while you carry it. Any alignment-detecting spell detects the alignment of the mote, as long as it is more powerful than your own alignment aura (PH 219). For example, a 12th-level lawful good warrior carrying a planar mote from Arborea (chaotic and good) would register as chaotic good, since his aura is weaker than that of the mote. However, a 5thlevel lawful evil cleric of Hextor carrying the same mote would register as lawful evil, because his aura is strong, overpowering the mote’s.

A planar mote is not a magic item; it does not take up space on the body or radiate magic. A planar mote functions only for the creature it is in closest contact with. Relying on its home plane for survival, a planar mote fades away and vanishes 1 week + 1d6 days after being taken from its native plane. A planar mote is destroyed if subjected to the spells banishment, dismissal, dispel chaos/evil/good/law (corresponding to the mote’s alignment), or protection from chaos/evil/good/law (corresponding to the mote’s alignment). A planar mote can also be physically attacked. It has hardness 1 and 5 hit points.

Planar motes fly at a speed of 10 feet with perfect maneuverability. To gain one’s effect, a user must contain it in some manner or risk having it escape. A simple jar or box carried in the user’s pack often suffices.

Much more rare are greater planar motes, which shed strong alignment auras. These more potent motes last for 1 month + 2d6 days after removal from their home plane, but otherwise function in the same way as normal planar motes.