This versatile item meets your every rope-related need.

Description: Crafted from the darkest teak and repeatedly stained until it holds a lustrous black shine, this rod is a sculpted, 18-inch-long baton. Closer inspection (Search DC 15) reveals three barely perceptible concave indentations in the middle third of the rod.

Activation: The three indentations act as buttons.Pressing any one of the rod’s buttons requires a move action.

Effect: The rod has three functions, each of which can be employed an unlimited number of times. However, no two functions can be used at the same time

Rope: When you press button 1, rope begins to extrude from one end of the rod at the rate of 60 feet per round. The rod can extrude 300 feet of rope in this manner. Pressing the button a second time stops the rope from extruding. Pressing it a third time draws the rope back in, also at a rate of 60 feet per round. Any knot in the rope automatically unties when it comes within 30 feet of the rod. This rope has the same hardness and hit points as the rest of the rod.

Grappling Hook and Rope: When you press button 2, a small leather wrist loop springs from one end of the rod and three sharp grappling hooks sprout from the other end.Pressing the button again launches one-third of the rod (the end with the three hooks) in the direction you aim it. A length of rope up to 300 feet long trails behind the launched section and connects it with the end you hold; all 300 feet of rope can discharge in 1 round. The rope stops unreeling if the hooks strike something solid (including a creature) or if you give the rod a quick backward jerk. Pressing the button a third time retracts the rope, drawing the held end toward the hooked end if it is secured properly. The retracting feature can pull up to 1,000 pounds with it, drawing up 60 feet of rope per round. The rope has the same hardness and hit points as the rest of the rod.

This function can be used to attack and push back opponents within 30 feet (beyond that distance it lacks sufficient power). On a successful ranged attack (no range increment) the hooked end deals 1d6 points of damage. The force of the blow is considerable, and those struck by it are subject to a bull rush effect (treat the hooked end as having a +5 bonus on its opposed check). The hooked end cannot pursue a pushed opponent.

Grappling Hooks and Slide: When you press button 3, three sharp grappling hooks sprout from each end of the rod. Pressing the button again launches the two ends of the rod (each one-third of its length) in opposite directions simultaneously. A length of rope up to 300 feet long trails behind each launched section and connects it with the middle third you hold (all 600 feet of rope can discharge in 1 round). The grappling hooks work exactly as described above, including the possibility of bull rushing opponents. Pressing the button a third time causes part of the middle section to expand slightly in diameter and slide freely along the extruded rope. The slide can be released from the remaining part of the middle section by squeezing it to loosen it. Two hand loops allow you to slide down the rope if it is at an angle.Regardless of the angle of the rope or the load on it (up to 1,000 pounds), if attached firmly the rope does not sag.

Pushing any button a second time returns the rod to its previous (unactivated) state.

Aura/Caster Level: Moderate transmutation; CL 10th.

Construction: Craft Rod, animate rope,2,000 gp, 160 XP, 4 days.
Weight: 4 lb.
Price: 4,000 gp.