This hand-held wheel grants its user a dose of extra fortune.

Lore: Clerics of Olidammara claim the genesis of these items lies with their fickle and funloving god, and nobody seems intent on arguing the point with them. Indeed, the oldest known wheels of fortune bear the Laughing Rogue’s symbol in conspicuous locations.

Description: A wheel of fortune consists of a 2-foot-wide wooden box with a brightly painted metal wheel, a little larger in diameter than the width of the box, partially encased at one end. The wheel is divided into eight “slices,” each one corresponding to one of the colors of the rainbow, plus a white slice. A brass needle sticks out the end of the box at the wheel end and acts as a pointer. In the center of the box’s top, lined up perfectly with the edge of the wheel, is a raised brass button (which sometimes bears the mark of Olidammara).

Spinning the wheel causes the color slices to blur into a disk of white. Regardless of how tightly a user holds it and no matter how hard the wheel is spun, the item never wobbles or loses its perfect balance.

Activation: Pressing the brass button (a standard action) activates the wheel, causing it to spin all the way around seven times. One round after activation, the wheel comes to a stop sometime during its eighth rotation with the brass pointer indicating one of the eight slices at random. Any attempt to stop the wheel or influence its outcome once its button has been pushed not only fails but also results in a jolt that deals 1d6 points of electricity damage. A wheel of fortune confers its effect on the character holding it.

Effect: When the wheel stops spinning, you gain an effect that depends on the slice the brass pointer indicates. The effect lasts for 24 hours. Once used, a wheel of fortune does not function again for the same character for 24 hours.

Roll on the following table to determine the wheel’s effect.

d8	Color	 Effect
1 	Red 	–1 penalty on attacks and saves
2 	Orange 	+2 luck bonus on Str checks and Str based skill checks
3 	Yellow 	+2 luck bonus on Dex checks and Dex based skill checks
4 	Green 	+2 luck bonus on Con checks and Con based skill checks
5 	Blue 	+2 luck bonus on Int checks and Int based skill checks
6 	Indigo 	+2 luck bonus on Wis checks and Wis based skill checks
7 	Violet 	+2 luck bonus on Cha checks and Cha based skill checks
8 	White 	10 temporary hit points

Aura/Caster Level: Moderate transmutation. CL 8th.
Construction: Craft Wondrous Item, bear’s strength, 
bestow curse, bull’s endurance, cat’s grace, eagle’s splendor, false life, fox’s cunning, owl’s wisdom, 3,000 gp, 240 XP, 6 days.
Weight: 2 lb.
Price: 6,000 gp.