Price (Item Level): 8, 000 gp (11th) 
Body Slot: Throat 
Caster Level: 13th 
Aura: Strong (DC 21); divination 
Activation: — 
Weight: 1 lb. 

This silver pendant looks like an ordinary holy symbol of any lawful neutral, lawful good, or neutral good deity. If you are a worshiper of any lawful neutral, lawful good, or neutral good deity, the pendant of redemption refashions itself into the shape of your holy symbol when you don it, and it functions as a divine focus for your spellcasting. You also gain a +5 competence bonus on Diplomacy checks when communicating with any being that can still be redeemed (or is already redeemed) in the eyes of your god. When dealing with a creature that your deity finds unredeemable, the pendant instead grant you a +5 competence bonus on Intimidate checks. You are instinctively aware which skill will work best with a given being. 

If you're a paladin, you can use the pendant to lead other toward repentance and forgiveness more effectively, if you so choose. While you wear the pendant of redemption, your detect evil ability does not reveal a creature's evil aura instead whether or not a being can be redeemed, and what a redeemable being must do to achieve full redemption in the eyes of your deity. Some beings might require multiple redemptive acts to make up for their past transgression but you know only the most pressing requirement at any given moment. 

In addition, the competence bonus on Diplomacy check that the pendant normally grants rises to +10 while you are actively working to convince a creature to embark upon the redemptive action you have divined. If it completes sue an act, you can then detect again to see whether any more penance is required. 

Though the insights you receive do not specifically tell you the details of the subject's original transgression you can often infer a great deal from the information you gain. For example, if you know that to atone for her sin; a certain person must "give the crown jewels back to the king, " you can be reasonably certain that her transgression involved the theft of the crown jewels. Even with less specific information, such as, "take up a nonviolent profession, " you can guess that the person's profession involved violence. 

Cost to Create: 4, 000 gp, 320 XP, 8 days. 
Prerequisites: Craft Wondrous Item, divination, legend lore, Diplomacy 10 ranks, Intimidate 5 ranks. 