More than a few adventurers enjoy hoisting a drink or two in celebration of their latest conquest. Sometimes characters drink more than they can handle. This optional rule can help the DM determine just how drunk a PC is after pounding down the ale. 

Alcohol is a depressant that reduces judgment and coordination. Every time a character consumes an entire alcoholic beverage (a glass of wine, a tankard of beer, or a jigger of any spirit) they make a Fortitude save at no penalty, with the DC determined by the type of alcohol (see the table below for examples of different alcohol types; unique liquors have the DC given in their descriptions). This assumes that the character is trying to avoid getting intoxicated.

The first drink in an hour imposes no penalty on the Fortitude save. The second drink consumed within the same hour imposes a –1 penalty, the third –2, the fourth –4, and so on. Obviously, a person can space the time between drinks to reduce the chance of getting drunk.

A character who fails a save takes 1d2 points of temporary ability damage to both Wisdom and Dexterity. A character who reaches 0 Wisdom passes out unconscious. A character who reaches 0 Dexterity collapses into a drunken wreck but remains in a blurry state of consciousness.

If both ability scores reach 0, the character could possibly suffer the effects of alcohol poisoning. This requires a Fortitude save with the DC for that type of alcohol (if different types were drunk, use the highest DC). On a failure, the character takes 1 point of temporary Constitution damage every 10 minutes until death occurs, unless the stomach is purged.

Alcohol Type 		DC
Wine, common 		11
Wine, fortified 	12
Ale, weak 		10
Ale, common 		11
Ale, stout 		12
Ale, dwarven 		13
Typical spirits  	11
(whiskey, rum, gin, etc.)
Very strong spirits 	13
Dangerously strong 	15

The character regains 1 point of Dexterity and Wisdom for each full hour after consuming the last alcoholic beverage, usually feeling terrible in the process. Neutralize poison negates the damaging effects of alcohol (but not the hangover).