The ready action is particularly open-ended and requires that you make the players using it be as specific as possible about what their characters are doing. If a character readies a spell so that it will be cast when a foe comes at her, the player needs to specify the exact spell—and you’re justified in making the player identify a specific foe, either one that the character is currently aware of or one that might come at her from a certain direction.

If a character specifies a readied action and then decides not to perform the action when the conditions are met, the standard rule is that the character can keep his action readied. Because combat is often confusing and fast, however, you’re within your rights to make it a little harder on the character who readies an action and doesn’t take that action when the opportunity presents itself. You have two options.
• Allow the character to forgo the action at the expense of losing the readied action.
• Allow the character to attempt a DC 15 Wisdom check to avoid taking the readied action. Thus, if a character covers a door with a crossbow, he can make a Wisdom check to keep from firing the crossbow when his friend comes through the door. A successful check means that he doesn’t fire at his friend, and is still ready to shoot the ghoul chasing the friend. A failure means he completes the action he readied and shoots the first creature through the door—his friend.

Smart players are going to learn that being specific is often better than making a general statement. If a character is covering a door with a crossbow, he might say, “I shoot the first enemy that comes through the door.” Although players can benefit from being specific, you should decide if a certain set of conditions is too specific. “I cover the door with my crossbow so that I shoot the first unwounded ghoul that comes through” might be too specific, because it’s not necessarily easy to tell an unwounded ghoul from a wounded one, especially when the judgment must be made in an instant. Ultimately, it’s your call.

Don’t allow players to use the ready action outside combat. While the above examples are all acceptable in the middle of an encounter, a player cannot use the ready action to cover a door with his crossbow outside combat. It’s okay for a player to state that he’s covering the door, but what that means is that if something comes through the door he’s unlikely to be caught unaware.

If the character coming through the door wasn’t aware of him, he gets an extra standard action because he surprised the other character, and so he can shoot the weapon. Otherwise, he still needs to roll initiative for his character normally