Delivery Devices 

The efficient use of alchemical capsules depends on a delivery device, which may be either a capsule retainer or an alchemical tooth. Each item is described in detail below. Only one capsule retainer or alchemical tooth can be worn at any one time, and only one alchemical capsule at a time can be stored in each type of delivery system. Using an alchemical capsule requires only a swift action if it is held in a properly worn capsule retainer or alchemical tooth. In the absence of a capsule retainer or alchemical tooth, using an alchemical capsule is a standard action, just like drinking a potion.

 Fitting an alchemical capsule into an empty capsule retainer or alchemical tooth is a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity.

Capsule Retainer: A capsule retainer consists of a thin, rubbery strap looped inside the teeth. The strap is fi tted with a small, smooth metal ring that can hold one alchemical capsule. The ring can be positioned on either the inside or outside of the user’s gums. Some users fi nd that holding the ring inside the gum and keeping the capsule under the tongue is the most comfortable way to wear a capsule retainer, while others fi nd that holding the ring on the outside of the upper gum allows them to tuck the capsule in their cheek comfortably.

Alchemical Tooth: Those relying on secrecy in the use of their alchemical capsules turn instead to the alchemical tooth. As its name suggests, this specially concealed item has been made to look like a tooth. The tooth functions in all respects like a capsule retainer (see above). In addition, it is very hard to fi nd without a thorough search (Search DC 30). The false tooth is most often used as a concealed version of a capsule retainer, but a few extremely dedicated spies and other agents carry a tooth filled with poison as insurance against being captured alive. An alchemical tooth can hold one dose of any contact poison or ingested poison, but such poison can only affect the wearer of the tooth—there’s no way to make the tooth an effective delivery mechanism when combined with a bite attack